# Coinbase: Beneath The Surface

## Overview and Origin
Coinbase Inc is a technology company that provides data and transaction processing services. The company was co-founded by CEO Brian Armstrong and Fred Ehrsam (Bloomberg). In 2012, Armstrong co-founded Coinbase and gave a budding demographic of cryptocurrency enthusiasts the opportunity to trade in their USD for bitcoins, and later the digital currency of their choice. Coinbase currently serves over 10 million customers across 32 countries, providing custody for more than $10 billion in digital assets (TechCrunch). 

Coinbase was first funded by Y Combinator. In 2012, co-founder Fred Ehrsam, a former Goldman Sachs trader, joined the company, after which Coinbase launched services to buy, sell, and store bitcoin (CB Insights). Coinbase is funded by 57 investors. True Capital Management and Fundamental Labs are the most recent investors. Coinbase has raised a total of $547.3M in funding over 14 rounds. Their latest funding was raised on Dec 21, 2018 from a Secondary Market round (CrunchBase).

## Business Activities

Coinbase's long awaited and much anticipated public offering appears near after the cryptocurrency trading platform filed paperwork with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday February 25, 2021 (MarketWatch). The revenue structure of the company poses its biggest risk, given the fact that its fate is linked to the prospects for Bitcoin and ethereum and the thousands of other alternative coins that have just been written into existence and will continue to face resistance from the centralized monetary system. Coinbase wrote in its S-1 filing, "If demand for these crypto assets declines and is not replaced by new demand for crypto assets, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.” It will be interesting to see what strategy Coinbase develops to offset the risk of being fully dependent on the future of cryptocurrency.

Coinbase is tailored specifically towards the retail cryptoinvestor, a good comparison of its platform would be the Robinhood of cryptocurrency exchange. On the Coinbase website, they boast "We are building the cryptoeconomy – a more fair, accessible, efficient, and transparent financial system enabled by crypto." Approximately 43 million verified users, 7,000 institutions, and 115,000 ecosystem partners in over 100 countries trust Coinbase to easily and securely invest, spend, save, earn, and use crypto (Coinbase). Coinbase is the largest cyrpto exchange in America and 3rd largest in the world with a current volume of $3,043,777,414 (Coinmarketcap). Compared with that of its biggest competitor, Binance, Coinbase is not accessible in as many countries and does not support some of the less known coins; however, customer support and ease of use of the platform are far superior in ratings with that of Binance (Bitdegree). Though trading fees are signifnicantly higher on Coinbase, withdrawal fees are lower than Binance (Bitdegree).

CoinBase uses many different type of technologies to maximize user experience and platform efficiency. One new technology they use is container technology. Companies choose to containerize their applications to increase engineering output/developer productivity in a quick, safe, and reliable manner. Containers enable engineers to develop, test, and run their applications locally in the same or similar manner that they will run in other environments (Coinbase blog). Containers enable a parallel system of collaboration resulting in quicker decisions.

Another technology implemented by Coinbase is Bazel monorepo. This system was designed in order to combat the problem of having multiple mircroservices integrating with various payment partners which resulted in frequent code replication (Coinbaseblog). The solution this technology offers is accomplished by migrating the payment services into a single monorepo.

## Landscape

Coinbase is in the Blockchain/ Cryptocurrency, personal finance, deposits, payments/billing, investment management and wealth management domains of the financial industry. Over the last five to ten years has been the birth of the core for Coinbase, Binance and all other cryptocurrency exchange platforms. Early platforms faced the stiff challenge of keeping hackers out, the most prominent failure in regards to hackers was Mt. Gox. In June 2011, came the first hack, with a total of 2,650 BTC removed from Mt. Gox. As a result, security measures were beefed up, and despite this, Mt. Gox went on to establish itself as the world’s largest bitcoin exchange by 2013 (Medium).

Since the fall of Mt. Gox and BitInstant, new platforms with tighter security measures and advanced technology came onto the scene. With this influx of new platforms, came the existence of new alternatives to Bitcoin now commonly known as altcoins (Medium). The 2017 alt season and ICO boom bought exponential growth, especially from new, user-led exchanges like Binance and Coinbase. Today, there are 8,613 cryptocurrencies with a market cap of $1,359,932,196,554 thanks to the emergence of post alt coin platforms Binance, Huobi and Coinbase (Coinmarketcap).

## Results

The business impact of Coinbase is that it has revoltionized cyrpto trading, on a retail level. When Bitcoin initially arrived, there were attempts to create an exchange on Wallstreet, that many felt was not suitable to the idea behind the actual objective of decentralized currency. As a result, Coinbase emerged becaise it allows users to buy and sell cryptocurrency at their fingertips, using their mobile platform.

Companies in the domain measure success mainly off of trade volume, market share and the number of users that utilize their platform. Coinbase currently is the number one used platform for trading in the United States, and third in the world behind Binance and Huobi. The current volume over the last 24 hours is $3,228,480,302, with 11,671,937 visits. Coinbase currently offers 46 coins in 129 markets (Coinmarketcap). Coinbase is at the very center of the crypto world, and poised for aggressive expansion as it prepares to go public.

## Recommendations

If I were to advise the company, I would recommend they immediately do two things:

1.) Lower transaction fees in order to better compete with Binance. User ratings and comments under "cons" almost unanimously cite the significantly higher transaction fees on coinbase. Alternative revenue streams must be considered in order to offset losses from lowering the fees. Perhaps reinstating margin trading can help bolster profits, or advertising space.

2.) Expand the number of altcoins available to trade. The obvious reason for this recommendation would be to attract more users, increase marketshare and volume, thus increasing profits. The popularity and awareness of the technology behind cryptocurrency is rapidly becoming more mainstream. After seeing record inflows to Bitcoin, followed by a surge in Ethereum where it outperforms BTC, we can now expect investors to start directing funds into other large and small-cap assets (Yahoo Finance). Therefore, it will be imperative to add new options to the platform to keep pace with the market conditions.

New technology such as synthetic assets will also help grow the platform, introducing the concept of contracts in the form of tokens. Synthetic assets can tokenize physical assets, bringing them onto a blockchain and imbuing them with all the advantages of cryptocurrency. Where derivatives are financial contracts that provide custom exposure to an underlying asset or financial position, synthetic assets are simply tokenized representations of similar positions (Coinbase blog). 